The Constitution of the United States is the supreme law of the United States of America.
The Constitution, originally comprising seven articles, delineates the national frame of government.
Its first three articles embody the doctrine of the separation of powers, whereby the federal government is divided into three branches: the legislative, consisting of the bicameral Congress (Article I); the executive, consisting of the president and subordinate officers (Article II); and the judicial, consisting of the Supreme Court and other federal courts (Article III).
Article IV, Article V and Article VI embody concepts of federalism, describing the rights and responsibilities of state governments, the states in relationship to the federal government, and the shared process of constitutional amendment.
Article VII establishes the procedure subsequently used by the thirteen States to ratify it.
It is regarded as the oldest written and codified national constitution in force.
Since the Constitution came into force in 1789, it has been amended 27 times, including one amendment that repealed a previous one, in order to meet the needs of a nation that has profoundly changed since the eighteenth century.
In general, the first ten amendments, known collectively as the Bill of Rights, offer specific protections of individual liberty and justice and place restrictions on the powers of government.
The majority of the seventeen later amendments expand individual civil rights protections.
Others address issues
related to federal authority or modify government processes and
procedures.
Amendments to the United States Constitution, unlike
ones made to many constitutions worldwide, are appended to the
document. All four pages[8] of the original U.S. Constitution are
written on parchment.
[9]
According to the United States Senate: "The Constitution's first three
words—We the People—affirm that the government of the United
States exists to serve its citizens. For over two centuries the
Constitution has remained in force because its framers wisely
separated and balanced governmental powers to safeguard the
interests of majority rule and minority rights, of liberty and equality,
and of the federal and state governments."[5] The first permanent
constitution of its kind,[a]
it is interpreted, supplemented, and
implemented by a large body of federal constitutional law, and has
influenced the constitutions of many other nations such as
Australia.
From September 5, 1774, to March 1, 1781, the Continental Congress functioned as the provisional
government of the United States. Delegates to the First (1774) and then the Second (1775–1781)
Continental Congress were chosen largely through the action of committees of correspondence in various
colonies rather than through the colonial or later state legislatures. In no formal sense was it a gathering
representative of existing colonial governments; it represented the dissatisfied elements of the people,
such persons as were sufficiently interested to act, despite the strenuous opposition of the loyalists and
the obstruction or disfavor of colonial governors.[13] The process of selecting the delegates for the First
and Second Continental Congresses underscores the revolutionary role of the people of the colonies in
establishing a central governing body. Endowed by the people collectively, the Continental Congress
alone possessed those attributes of external sovereignty which entitled it to be called a state in the
international sense, while the separate states, exercising a limited or internal sovereignty, may rightly be
considered a creation of the Continental Congress, which preceded them and brought them into
being.[14]
The Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union was the first constitution of the United States.[15] It
was drafted by the Second Continental Congress from mid-1776 through late 1777, and ratification by all
13 states was completed by early 1781. The Articles of Confederation gave little power to the central
government. The Confederation Congress could make decisions, but lacked enforcement powers.
Implementation of most decisions, including modifications to the Articles, required unanimous approval
of all thirteen state legislatures.[16]
Although, in a way, the Congressional powers in Article 9 made the "league of states as cohesive and
strong as any similar sort of republican confederation in history",[17]
the chief problem was, in the words
of George Washington, "no money".[18] The Continental Congress could print money but it was
worthless. Congress could borrow money, but couldn't pay it back.[18] No state paid all their U.S. taxes;
some paid nothing. Some few paid an amount equal to interest on the national debt owed to their
citizens, but no more.[18] No interest was paid on debt owed foreign governments. By 1786, the United
States would default on outstanding debts as their dates came due.[18]
Internationally, the United States had little ability to defend its sovereignty. Most of the troops in the
625-man United States Army were deployed facing (but not threatening) British forts on American soil.
They had not been paid; some were deserting and others threatening mutiny.[19] Spain closed New
Orleans to American commerce; U.S. officials protested, but to no effect. Barbary pirates began seizing
American ships of commerce; the Treasury had no funds to pay their ransom. If any military crisis
required action, the Congress had no credit or taxing power to finance a response.[18]
Domestically, the Articles of Confederation was failing to bring unity to the diverse sentiments and
interests of the various states. Although the Treaty of Paris (1783) was signed between Great Britain and
the U.S., and named each of the American states, various states proceeded blithely to violate it. New
York and South Carolina repeatedly prosecuted Loyalists for wartime activity and redistributed their
lands.[18] Individual state legislatures independently laid embargoes, negotiated directly with foreign
authorities, raised armies, and made war, all violating the letter and the spirit of the Articles.
In September 1786, during an inter–state convention to discuss and develop a consensus about reversing
the protectionist trade barriers that each state had erected, James Madison angrily questioned whether
the Articles of Confederation was a binding compact or even a viable government. Connecticut paid
nothing and "positively refused" to pay U.S. assessments for two years.[20] A rumor had it that a
"seditious party" of New York legislators had opened a conversation with the Viceroy of Canada. To the
south, the British were said to be openly funding Creek Indian raids on Georgia, and the state was under
martial law.
[21] Additionally, during Shays' Rebellion (August 1786 – June 1787) in Massachusetts,
Congress could provide no money to support an endangered constituent state. General Benjamin Lincoln
was obliged to raise funds from Boston merchants to pay for a volunteer army.[22]
Congress was paralyzed. It could do nothing significant without nine states, and some legislation
required all thirteen. When a state produced only one member in attendance, its vote was not counted. If
a state's delegation was evenly divided, its vote could not be counted towards the nine-count
requirement.[23] The Congress of the Confederation had "virtually ceased trying to govern".[24] The
vision of a "respectable nation" among nations seemed to be fading in the eyes of revolutionaries such as
George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, and Rufus King. Their dream of a republic, a nation without
hereditary rulers, with power derived from the people in frequent elections, was in doubt.[25]
On February 21, 1787, the Confederation Congress called a convention of state delegates at Philadelphia
to propose a plan of government.[27] Unlike earlier attempts, the convention was not meant for new laws
or piecemeal alterations, but for the "sole and express purpose of revising the Articles of Confederation".
The convention was not limited to commerce; rather, it was intended to "render the federal constitution
adequate to the exigencies of government and the preservation of the Union." The proposal might take
effect when approved by Congress and the states.[28]
On the appointed day, May 14, 1787, only the Virginia and Pennsylvania delegations were present, and so
the convention's opening meeting was postponed for lack of a quorum.[29] A quorum of seven states met
and deliberations began on May 25. Eventually twelve states were represented; 74 delegates were
named, 55 attended and 39 signed.[30] The delegates were generally convinced that an effective central
government with a wide range of enforceable powers must replace the weaker Congress established by
the Articles of Confederation.
Two plans for structuring the federal government arose at the convention's outset:
The Virginia Plan (also known as the Large State Plan
or the Randolph Plan) proposed that the legislative
department of the national government be composed of
a Bicameral Congress, with both chambers elected with
apportionment according to population. Generally
favoring the most highly populated states, it used the
philosophy of John Locke to rely on consent of the
governed, Montesquieu for divided government, and
Edward Coke to emphasize civil liberties.[31]
The New Jersey Plan proposed that the legislative
department be a unicameral body with one vote per
state. Generally favoring the less-populous states, it
used the philosophy of English Whigs such as Edmund
Burke to rely on received procedure and William
Blackstone to emphasize sovereignty of the legislature.
This position reflected the belief that the states were independent entities and, as they entered the
United States of America freely and individually, remained so.[32]
On May 31, the Convention devolved into a "Committee of the Whole" to consider the Virginia Plan. On
June 13, the Virginia resolutions in amended form were reported out of committee. The New Jersey Plan
was put forward in response to the Virginia Plan.
A "Committee of Eleven" (one delegate from each state represented) met from July 2 to 16[33] to work
out a compromise on the issue of representation in the federal legislature. All agreed to a republican
form of government grounded in representing the people in the states. For the legislature, two issues
were to be decided: how the votes were to be allocated among the states in the Congress, and how the
representatives should be elected. In its report, now known as the Connecticut Compromise (or "Great
Compromise"), the committee proposed proportional representation for seats in the House of
Representatives based on population (with the people voting for representatives), and equal
representation for each State in the Senate (with each state's legislators generally choosing their
respective senators), and that all money bills would originate in the House.[34]
The Great Compromise ended the stalemate between "patriots" and "nationalists", leading to numerous
other compromises in a spirit of accommodation. There were sectional interests to be balanced by the
Three-Fifths Compromise; reconciliation on Presidential term, powers, and method of selection; and
jurisdiction of the federal judiciary.
On July 24, a "Committee of Detail"—John Rutledge (South Carolina), Edmund Randolph (Virginia),
Nathaniel Gorham (Massachusetts), Oliver Ellsworth (Connecticut), and James Wilson (Pennsylvania)—
was elected to draft a detailed constitution reflective of the Resolutions passed by the convention up to
that point.[35] The Convention recessed from July 26 to August 6 to await the report of this "Committee
of Detail". Overall, the report of the committee conformed to the resolutions adopted by the convention,
adding some elements. A twenty-three article (plus preamble) constitution was presented.[36]
From August 6 to September 10, the report of the committee of detail was discussed, section by section
and clause by clause. Details were attended to, and further compromises were effected.[33][35] Toward
the close of these discussions, on September 8, a "Committee of Style and Arrangement"—Alexander
Hamilton (New York), William Samuel Johnson (Connecticut), Rufus King (Massachusetts), James
Madison (Virginia), and Gouverneur Morris (Pennsylvania)—was appointed to distill a final draft
constitution from the twenty-three approved articles.[35] The final draft, presented to the convention on
September 12, contained seven articles, a preamble and a closing endorsement, of which Morris was the
primary author.[30] The committee also presented a proposed letter to accompany the constitution when
delivered to Congress.[37]
The final document, engrossed by Jacob Shallus,
[38] was taken up on Monday, September 17, at the
convention's final session. Several of the delegates were disappointed in the result, a makeshift series of
unfortunate compromises. Some delegates left before the ceremony and three others refused to sign. Of
the thirty-nine signers, Benjamin Franklin summed up, addressing the convention: "There are several
parts of this Constitution which I do not at present approve, but I am not sure I shall never approve
them." He would accept the Constitution, "because I expect no better and because I am not sure that it is
not the best".[39]
The advocates of the Constitution were anxious to obtain unanimous support of all twelve states
represented in the convention. Their accepted formula for the closing endorsement was "Done in
Convention, by the unanimous consent of the States present." At the end of the convention, the proposal
was agreed to by eleven state delegations and the lone remaining delegate from New York, Alexander
Hamilton.[40]
Transmitted to the Congress of the Confederation, then sitting in
New York City, it was within the power of Congress to expedite or
block ratification of the proposed Constitution. The new frame of
government that the Philadelphia Convention presented was
technically only a revision of the Articles of Confederation. After
several days of debate, Congress voted to transmit the document to
the thirteen states for ratification according to the process outlined
in its Article VII. Each state legislature was to call elections for a
"Federal Convention" to ratify the new Constitution, rather than
consider ratification itself; a departure from the constitutional
practice of the time, designed to expand the franchise in order to
more clearly embrace "the people". The frame of government itself
was to go into force among the States so acting upon the approval of
nine (i.e. two-thirds of the 13) states; also a departure from
constitutional practice, as the Articles of Confederation could be
amended only by unanimous vote of all the states.
Three members of the Convention—Madison, Gorham, and King—
were also Members of Congress. They proceeded at once to New
York, where Congress was in session, to placate the expected opposition. Aware of their vanishing
authority, Congress, on September 28, after some debate, resolved unanimously to submit the
Constitution to the States for action, "in conformity to the resolves of the Convention",[41] but with no
recommendation either for or against its adoption.
Two parties soon developed, one in opposition, the Anti-Federalists, and one in support, the Federalists,
of the Constitution; and the Constitution was debated, criticized, and expounded upon clause by clause.
Hamilton, Madison, and Jay, under the name of Publius, wrote a series of commentaries, now known as
The Federalist Papers, in support of ratification in the state of New York, at that time a hotbed of antiFederalism. These commentaries on the Constitution, written during the struggle for ratification, have
been frequently cited by the Supreme Court as an authoritative contemporary interpretation of the
meaning of its provisions. The dispute over additional powers for the central government was close, and
in some states, ratification was effected only after a bitter struggle in the state convention itself.
On June 21, 1788, the constitution had been ratified by the minimum of nine states required under
Article VII. Towards the end of July, and with eleven states then having ratified, the process of
organizing the new government began. The Continental Congress, which still functioned at irregular
intervals, passed a resolution on September 13, 1788, to put the new Constitution into operation with the
eleven states that had then ratified it.[42] The federal government began operations under the new form
of government on March 4, 1789. However, the initial meeting of each chamber of Congress had to be
adjourned due to lack of a quorum.
[43] George Washington was inaugurated as the nation's first
president 8 weeks later, on April 30. The final two states, North Carolina and Rhode Island, both
subsequently ratified the Constitution on November 21, 1789, and May 29, 1790, respectively.
Several ideas in the Constitution were new. These were associated with
the combination of consolidated government along with federal
relationships with constituent states.
The Due Process Clause of the Constitution was partly based on
common law and on Magna Carta (1215), which had become a
foundation of English liberty against arbitrary power wielded by a
ruler.
Among the most prominent political theorists of the late eighteenth
century were William Blackstone, John Locke, and Montesquieu.
[44]
Both the influence of Edward Coke and William Blackstone were evident at the convention. In his
Institutes of the Lawes of England, Edward Coke interpreted Magna Carta protections and rights to
apply not just to nobles, but to all British subjects. In writing the Virginia Charter of 1606, he enabled the
King in Parliament to give those to be born in the colonies all rights and liberties as though they were
born in England. William Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England were the most influential
books on law in the new republic.
British political philosopher John Locke following the Glorious Revolution (1688) was a major influence
expanding on the contract theory of government advanced by Thomas Hobbes. Locke advanced the
principle of consent of the governed in his Two Treatises of Government. Government's duty under a
social contract among the sovereign people was to serve the people by protecting their rights. These basic
rights were life, liberty and property.
Montesquieu's influence on the framers is evident in Madison's Federalist No. 47 and Hamilton's
Federalist No. 78. Jefferson, Adams, and Mason were known to read Montesquieu.[45] Supreme Court
Justices, the ultimate interpreters of the Constitution, have cited Montesquieu throughout the Court's
history.[46] (See, e.g., Green v. Biddle, 21 U.S. 1, 1, 36 (1823). United States v. Wood, 39 U.S. 430, 438
(1840). Myers v. United States, 272 U.S. 52, 116 (1926). Nixon v. Administrator of General Services, 433
U.S. 425, 442 (1977). Bank Markazi v. Peterson, 136 U.S. 1310, 1330 (2016). ) Montesquieu emphasized
the need for balanced forces pushing against each other to prevent tyranny (reflecting the influence of
Polybius's 2nd century BC treatise on the checks and balances of the Roman Republic). In his The Spirit
of the Laws, Montesquieu argues that the separation of state powers should be by its service to the
people's liberty: legislative, executive and judicial.
A substantial body of thought had been developed from the literature of republicanism in the United
States, including work by John Adams and applied to the creation of state constitutions.
The constitution was a federal one, and was influenced by the study of other federations, both ancient
and extant.
The United States Bill of Rights consists of 10 amendments added to the Constitution in 1791, as
supporters of the Constitution had promised critics during the debates of 1788.[47] The English Bill of
Rights (1689) was an inspiration for the American Bill of Rights. Both require jury trials, contain a right
to keep and bear arms, prohibit excessive bail and forbid "cruel and unusual punishments". Many
liberties protected by state constitutions and the Virginia Declaration of Rights were incorporated into
the Bill of Rights.
Neither the Convention which drafted the Constitution nor the
Congress which sent it to the thirteen states for ratification in the
autumn of 1787, gave it a lead caption. To fill this void, the document
was most often titled "A frame of Government" when it was printed
for the convenience of ratifying conventions and the information of
the public.[48] This Frame of Government consisted of a preamble, seven articles and a signed closing
endorsement.
The preamble to the Constitution serves as an introductory
statement of the document's fundamental purposes and guiding
principles. It neither assigns powers to the federal government,[49]
nor does it place specific limitations on government action. Rather,
it sets out the origin, scope and purpose of the Constitution. Its
origin and authority is in "We, the people of the United States". This
echoes the Declaration of Independence. "One people" dissolved
their connection with another, and assumed among the powers of
the earth, a sovereign nation-state. The scope of the Constitution is twofold. First, "to form a more
perfect Union" than had previously existed in the "perpetual Union" of the Articles of Confederation.
Second, to "secure the blessings of liberty", which were to be enjoyed by not only the first generation but
for all who came after, "our posterity".[50]
Article I describes the Congress, the legislative branch of the federal government. Section 1, reads, "All
legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist
of a Senate and House of Representatives." The article establishes the manner of election and the
qualifications of members of each body. Representatives must be at least 25 years old, be a citizen of the
United States for seven years, and live in the state they represent. Senators must be at least 30 years old,
be a citizen for nine years, and live in the state they represent.
